Programing language that creates the layout and the objects that are placed on a website
Programing language that takes HTML objects and sets their traits (color, size, ect.)
A collection of documents and files that tell the computer what to show on your screen.
Reads a website's code and displays it in a way that's easy to understand
A container for all a website's code - browsers access websites by sending a view request to the server.
A request to a server to access a webpage
A version of HTTP that encrypts each web server request.
A URL is a Uniform Resource Locator, basically an address that lets a browser know where it is on the internet.
The smallest piece of data on a computer, either a 1 or a 0.
A collection of 8 bits.
A storage bin on your computer - where a website keeps all its relevant information for you.
A virus is a kind of malware designed to replicate and spread to other computers
A person using a computer to illegally access/copy data
A CMS, or Content Management System, is an application that helps a user to create and modify digital content
Person responsible for the upkeep of computer systems (usually servers)
Selective restriction/whitelisting of access to a website/application
Grouped data in a computer to perform a purpose (like an application)
What is inside your computer, e.g. it's physical components (hard-drive, fan, keyboard, ect.)
The radio frequency that connects your computer to a network
A tool hackers use to compromise a website and then spread malware to whoever visits said website.
Software used to attack your computer or/and access your information
null
A system your computer uses to compare bits and output another bits. (If the computer sees two 1s or two 0s, it returns 0. If it sees one 1 and one 0, it returns 1)
A part of a network address that identifies the the website. For example, google.com or facebook.com
Your computer's identifier
A method of protecting data from hacking by scrambling it.
A location (usually not physically near it's users), used to store or process information.
Connecting computers together through a remote network to conglomerate power
Secure external file storage
A self-contained piece of hardware that your computer stores information too.
A hard drive that uses a mechanical arm to read and write information from your computer. Usually slow.
A hard drive that uses microchips (with no moving parts) to read and write information from the computer. Much faster than an HDD.
WPA< or Wi-FI Protected Access, are two security protocols that protect WIFI from attacks.
A data center is a large group of computer servers used for data storage, processing, and distribution.
A key to access data from a company's servers
An easy way for computers to securely check if two inputs are the same
An successful attempt to steal data from a computer/network. The largest of these can compromise the accounts of millions of individuals.
A Virtual Private Network, or VPN, is a tool used to re-route your ip, data requests, and information through another encrypted server somewhere else in the world.
Digital Information
An application used as a kind of database for personal passwords
The idea that ISP’s should give access to all internet content without favoring or blocking specific sources
ISPs, or Internet Service Providers, provide the public access to the internet for exorbitant prices.
The FCC, or Federal Communications Commission, is a U.S. government agency regulating communications by T.V, radio, wire, satellite, and cable.
Internet piracy is using the internet to illegally copy/download/distribute software, usually using torrents.
The DMCA, or Digital Millennium Copyright Act is a piece of U.S. copyright law that added conditions for the modern day (through internet regulation).
The idea that copyrighted material may be quoted and copied if used for educational purposes
In RSA encryption, the public modifier is the product of p and q, the two primes used to encrypt a message. This number is represented as n, and is used in many other aspects of the encryption.
This is the key used to encrypt messages in RSA.
Encrypted text
This is the key used to decrypt messages in RSA
Random text/numbers added to plaintext before encryption, to ensure that each encrypted result is different.
The message that is encrypted
A number whose only factors are one and itself.
Two numbers are co-prime only if the greatest divisor of both of them is 1 (meaning that they share no common factors). For example, 8 (factors of 1, 2, 4, and 8) and 15 (factors of 1, 3, 5, 15) are coprime.
A number that does not have a fractional component (e.g. 5, -15, or 1,000,000)
a fixed-length group of bits. Messages are often split up into these, which are then individually manipulated.
An algorithm used on blocks (determined by a key) to transform them.
A kind of structure used in DES and AES block ciphers.
A subkey is a manipulation of the main key that is used in tandem with block ciphers to transform blocks.
The repetition of a designated set of operations.
Subkey generation is the process by which a subkey is created using a previous subkey or main key.
The order of the set of keys to be used on differing permutations.
The number of bits used in a cryptographic key
A number system in base 16 (0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,a,b,c,d,e,f) often used by programmers. Each hexadecimal number represents 4 bits, so they are often found in pairs to make up a byte.
A data structure (list) of items that a programer adds to and pulls from - making coding easier and more intuitive.
Think of binary like a string of powers of two (from large to small), with a 1 adding a plus sign between two of them, and a - removing a plus sign. 16 8 4 2 1: 5 is 101, as it is 1 + 4, and 15 is 1111, as it is 8+4+2+1.
A key derived from the primary key (eg. a subkey)
The process in a 4X4 AES block where each row is shifted left once according to it's number (0th row 0 times, 1st row 1 time, ect.)
A polynomial that cannot be factored into more polynomials.
A table of look-up values a computer uses to transform text.
